---
layout: post
title: "Final Post - Advice to Future CS Students"
---

## What’s One Thing You’d Tell Someone Starting This Course?

One major tip that I would suggest is doing all of the work in class genuinely. Do not use AI to help take shortcuts or anything. All that really does is negatively affect you. Every time you solve a question without AI, it helps to get your mind to think more critically and out of the box every time. But when you use AI, it takes that away the learning aspect of the class. When the time comes in the future to actually do something that requires you to think critically, you'll be so stuck because you've literally done no work. Don't set yourself up for failure. Please do all of the work yourself.


## What Did You Learn That Might Stick With You?

I think that this class will have multiple things that will stick with me, but the major thing that I will always remember is what I learned about work ethic. If you have something you don't know and you've been struggling on it for a very very long time, I learned that I need to take a break. I learned that after some point, trying to force your brain to spit out more just doesn't work. I learned that I just need to take a break at that point. I've also learned how to manage my time in a better way through this class.

## What Helped You Get Through Challenges?

One thing that has always helped me get through challenges is the good old paper and pencil. When I every had a bug that annoyed me, I would write down everything that the code was doing on a piece of paper. This was an amazing way to catch my mistakes because it made you think so much slower and more critically. It also make you discover other redundant lines of code too. This was genuinely my saving grace for many questions.

## What’s Next for You?

I think that this class has made me more interested in programming. I think that I'm going to try taking a UIUC class about programming next year, as I want to see if I'm actually interested in programming. I'm also curious about how programming and medicine can both overlap, and I think that's another thing that I'm going to explore too. 

---
