---
layout: post
title: "Day 1 - Getting Started"
---

### What I Set Out to Do
The aim of this week was to work on the actual functionalities of the game. I wanted to figure out my starting screen, the process of inputting money, actual gameplay, and working on unique subcases that sometimes occur like splits, aces (they can equal 1 or 11), and more. My main focus for this stage is the gameplay, which is the most important part of this whole project. I'm pretty excited to get is working so that I can try playing it myself.

---

### What I Actually Did

So far for these past two days, I've only been able to work on the starting screen and the process of inputting money. I noticed that this was pretty difficult because lots of the aspects that I would commonly would use are missing (like clicking buttons). This caused me to face some drawbacks, so I was only able to do a small amount of programming because I was trying to find ways around my problems.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

I was struggling to have my value of money carry across between multiple games of blackjack. I'm composing my game with multiple functions, and I'm often using a global variable to hold values across multiple functions. But when I created a universal variable that held the value as an integer, I noticed that when the values were altered, they weren't being carried over between functions (the values are changed within functions). I noticed that this was likely because integers were immutable, and it was creating a new memory value within the function I created. So, to try to fix this, I used a list for my data type in order to ensure that the memory value would be consistent, making sure that the value of the varible is carried across multiple functions. It was pretty interesting to find this out.

---

### What's Next

For this next part of my project, I hope to finish the actual gameplay within the next 2 days so that I can work on the little subcases and visual aspects. If I'm not able to finish it that quickly, then I might have to start scrapping the visual aspect of the game.
