---
layout: post
title: "Day 4 - Standing"
---

### What I Set Out to Do
The past days, I decided to focus solely on gamplay mechanics (standing, hitting, doubling down, and etc...). I also dedided that I needed to make sure that the user's money had to properly be balanced based on if the user won or not. The focus of today was supposed to be on standing.

---

### What I Actually Did

So far, I've been working on standing for a very long time today, but I've been running into lots of issues and struggles so far. I noticed that I may have put expectations that were too high for myself, and I noticed that I likely have to scale down and remove a few aspects of the game so that I can make sure everything in the game still functions well. I noticed very late that I have lots of aspects that I'm still lacking. For example, I'm lacking the comparison of values between the user and dealer (to see who won), the correct balance of money for users, and most obviously, standing. So, I decided that I would have to unfortunately put down trying to tackle the process of doubling down and splitting, as I feel like I don't have enough time to make both of these game mechanics work properly without sacrificing the functionality of other parts of the game.


---

### What I Learned or Noticed

One major issue that has bugged me for my whole project has been the use of variables across functions. I always have to include more and more inputs for functions, which makes my code harder and harder to understand. Overall, this whole process has been going horribly for me. I feel like lots of my code is really messy, but when I actually try to make it more readable, I don't know how I would be able to break down and simplify many parts of my code. So overall, I feel like I'm really at a plateu for this project. I feel like I'm making no progress, and my code is only working in a super crude manner.

---

### What's Next

At this point, I'm just really hoping that this final project would be able to function at the least. I'm really nervous that I'm going to be able to make my game function correctly, but at the same time I don't want to burn myself out because lots of work is upcoming this week for me. So, for this final stretch of my project, I'm going to finish the standing process, the evaluation of values between the dealer and player, and the proper balance updates for the player.
