---
layout: post
title: "Day 5 - Dealer vs. Player (and also money)"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

With the end of the project being tomorrow, today is my final day to add any functionalities to the game before I have to submit it tomorrow. So, the plan for today was to finish up the game by adding in the money evaluation and creating a function that would compare the dealer's hand to the player's hand.

---

### What I Actually Did

So today, I suddenly ran into an error that involved the standing process. For some reason, when I stood after I hit, it didn't process the standing at all. So, I had to fix that up quickly. Next, I worked on the evaluation process between the dealer's and user's hand. This was pretty simple because I already had a variable that stored the value of the dealer's and user's hand. I also worked on the money process (double your bet if you win or lose your money if you lose), which was also quite simple. Overall, the process of finishing up went pretty decently.


---

### What I Learned or Noticed

One thing that I noticed was that my function kept on having little bugs that weren't really caused by my code. For example, there were times where an input needed to pop up, but it just wouldn't pop up at times. To explain a little bit more, it wasn't because an if statement wasn't working or anything. The place where I would usually input a value just didn't appear at all whatsoever. I think that this might be because of the large amount of code that's being processed, but I'm probably wrong. So, to get aroung this, I just reran the code cell, which is kind of inconvenient. I tried looking online to see if what may possibly be causing this, but I came out empty in the end.

---

### What's Next

For now, I think that I'm going to run my final function over and over to see if there are any profound errors or little errors that can be fixed easily. Overall, I feel kinda proud of how this project has turned out overall.
