---
layout: post
title: "Day 2 - Hitting"
---

### What I Set Out to Do
The goal of this week is still to finish all of the gameplay mechanics (Hitting, standing, doubling down, splitting, etc...). The main issue out of all of these was hitting and standing, as those are the most important functionalities of the game.

---

### What I Actually Did

Today, I was actually able to get lots of work done related to hitting. I was able to pop a new card from a deck, find the value of the card, add it to the user's hand, and update the users hand so that the user would see how their hand looks. I also fixed the issue regarding the duality of aces. I was able ot make conditional statements that would execute the proper decisions in specific situations. So, now I have lots of stuff finshed when it comes to hitting within blackjack.


---

### What I Learned or Noticed

One major bug that had me struggling was the duality of the aces. So, when you have an ace, I would make the user be able to see both of their possible values. So, if you had an ace and a 3, then you would see 4/14 for your value. However, when I tried to hit with proceeding cards, the values of the cards couldn't be added to the player's value because the value was a string (in order to show both possible values). Finding out about this issue bugged me a lot throughout today because it was lots of tedious work in order to see when I needed to convert my string back to an integer, and what part I wanted to turn into an integer (the larger or smaller?). I was eventually able to fix up all of the issues I faced, and now aces don't present any major issues.

---

### What's Next

Now that I've got the process of hitting down, I really need to work on standing. In this next stage of coding for standing, I need to make it so that the dealer now has to draw cards until the dealer reaches a number greater than 16 or until the dealer busts. I think that this process is going to be similar to the process of hitting, but I'm sure there's also going to be other little details that will find a way to bug me.
